README.md, before:

# JieLi STUFF

![JL_TECH_CHIP_DELITE_DA_WORLD](https://doc.zh-jieli.com/static/image/logo.png)

**JieLi Technology - Chips Delight the World.**

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JieLi Technology ('杰理' aka "Jerry", "π" // "jelly", 光) is a company that was based in year 2010 in the ZhuHai city of Guangdong province, China.

Their chips can be found in various cheap MP3 players, Bluetooth speakers, Bluetooth/MP3 modules, dash cams and so on.
(along with other companies like "Jianrong" Appotech/Buildwin, "AB" Bluetrum, MVSilicon, Beken, RDA, etc.)

Chips can be identified as JieLi ones by them having a slanted "JL"/"π" logo,
and a misleading/nonsense marking that doesn't tell the real chip name right away,
like "AB1526CG3X1F.1-82E" (AC1082), "AB1819CK1Y11.1-87" (AC1187), "AC1631D97294-04A" (AC5204A), "AC20BP05193-65A4" (AC6965A), to name a few.

Sometimes their chips are rebadged, for instance: "TD5161A" is the AC6965A, "MH-M18" is AC6925C (recently it's AC6925D).

Although it seems like they now do print the actual chip names on some recent chip series like JL697N, JL700N, etc.

[Here](chips/chip-marks.md) is some information on what the markings actually mean.

## Contents

- [Chips](chips/index.md) - Information about chips
- [Boards](boards/index.md) - Information about some boards
- [Devices](devices/index.md) - Information about some devices
- [Peripheral blocks](periph/index.md) - Information about the peripheral blocks
- [CPU cores](cpu/index.md) - Information about the CPU cores and architectures used in JieLi chips.
- [Protocols](protos/index.md) - Information about some communication protocols.
- [Misc stuff](misc/index.md) - Various other information and stuff (until I find a proper place for them, I guess)
- [Data formats](datafmt/index.md) - Information about various data format and structures used in JieLi chips.

## See also

- [Some links](specilinks.md) to JieLi-related resources and stuff.

Commit message:

the 'in-system programming' section

README.md, after:

# JieLi STUFF

![JL_TECH_CHIP_DELITE_DA_WORLD](https://doc.zh-jieli.com/static/image/logo.png)

**JieLi Technology - Chips Delight the World.**

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JieLi Technology ('杰理' aka "Jerry", "π" // "jelly", 光) is a company that was based in year 2010 in the ZhuHai city of Guangdong province, China.

Their chips can be found in various cheap MP3 players, Bluetooth speakers, Bluetooth/MP3 modules, dash cams and so on.
(along with other companies like "Jianrong" Appotech/Buildwin, "AB" Bluetrum, MVSilicon, Beken, RDA, etc.)

Chips can be identified as JieLi ones by them having a slanted "JL"/"π" logo,
and a misleading/nonsense marking that doesn't tell the real chip name right away,
like "AB1526CG3X1F.1-82E" (AC1082), "AB1819CK1Y11.1-87" (AC1187), "AC1631D97294-04A" (AC5204A), "AC20BP05193-65A4" (AC6965A), to name a few.

Sometimes their chips are rebadged, for instance: "TD5161A" is the AC6965A, "MH-M18" is AC6925C (recently it's AC6925D).

Although it seems like they now do print the actual chip names on some recent chip series like JL697N, JL700N, etc.

[Here](chips/chip-marks.md) is some information on what the markings actually mean.

## Contents

- [Chips](chips/index.md) - Information about chips
- [Boards](boards/index.md) - Information about some boards
- [Devices](devices/index.md) - Information about some devices
- [In-system programming](isp/index.md) - Information about the programming methods and protocols
- [Peripheral blocks](periph/index.md) - Information about the peripheral blocks
- [CPU cores](cpu/index.md) - Information about the CPU cores and architectures used in JieLi chips.
- [Protocols](protos/index.md) - Information about some communication protocols.
- [Misc stuff](misc/index.md) - Various other information and stuff (until I find a proper place for them, I guess)
- [Data formats](datafmt/index.md) - Information about various data format and structures used in JieLi chips.

## See also

- [Some links](specilinks.md) to JieLi-related resources and stuff.
